How old are you?
>> Uh I am I just turned 20 like uh one and
a half week back.
>> Like second year of college or
>> uh third third year fifth year fifth
semester.
>> Okay.
>> Before like Umbra like throughout my
first year and like first year first and
like one 1.5 years I was like a regular
web two dev. So during my first year I
qualified for Gox. So I really loved
systems programming from like day one.
Yeah.
>> Did you guys expect to raise what what
was exactly going through the team's
mind when you you know saw that you guys
were trying to raise 750k? From 750 it
went to 110 it went to 20 and all the
way to 150 by the time you guys stop. Uh
so what what was going through your
mind? What was it like?
>> Honestly like I'll be I'll be very
honest over this one. And like our raise
had just started and when we logged on
to like the website to see what's
happening the website had crashed and we
were like okay something's like up.
>> Hello everyone welcome to another
episode of one devs podcast. Today we
have with us Cal co-founder of Umbra.
Umbra has been they have done a lot of
amazing things and they have been part
of the news cycle in the past couple of
days much more especially because they
raised $153 million when they set out to
raise
750k or you know it's this is a special
story because these are all super team
India members who submitted into
coliseum and completely turned around
the course of their project in the
matter of four months. So,
welcome welcome to the show, Cal.
>> Thank you. Super super glad to be here.
I think I met both of you like guys at
like Only Devs and Apex, but but super
glad to be here.
>> Amazing. We love to kick things off with
uh how do you get into crypto and you
know um when did you start doing that?
You're pretty young for the audience.
He's just 20. So would love to know what
was your addiction story.
>> Right. So I mean I started crypto last
year I think around November. Uh the
thing was like there was Ethereum India
at the time. So from my university like
a lot of teams go out. So a lot of my
seniors were going for Ethereum India
and that time I had like zero idea about
cryptography or crypto in general. I had
just picked up the book Mastering
Bitcoin and I was like okay this is like
some really really interesting book and
I was just reading through it. So that
time Ethereum India's uh like you know
registration forms had come out. So it
was like one and a half week before
Ethereum India and then we sort of had
like registered for it and we had gotten
through it and that was like my first
time learning anything related to
blockchain. So it was like in those one
two two weeks we basically speed ran
like mastering Bitcoin a lot of books
are mastering Ethereum things like that.
So it was like I started off in
Ethereum. I learned solidity at the
hackathon mostly but uh we basically
were like trying to build something
pretty fun like we were at the time
trying to book tickets over here for
like a concert and there was like a lot
of black market ticket scalping going on
and we were like this is so painful. So
for the hackathon we ended up building a
product to fix that. So on the way we
picked up a lot of stuff like I picked
up a lot of cryptography. We made use of
this thing called zero knowledge proofs.
At the time I did not know too much
about it just how to write one. I did
not know anything about it but we built
something out of it and it end up ended
it ended up pretty good. We got a prize
at the Ethereum India hackathon and that
was like I think the starting point of
my like trajectory into crypto and like
why I got into it. So
>> after
>> this was around when
>> uh this was last year November like 2024
November December. So the Ethereum India
hackathon was in December and we had
registered somewhere in November as far
as I remember. So we had attended the
event at Bangalore and from then I
started thinking that okay this could be
like something I'm really interested in.
It really called out like I just liked
doing crypto. I like doing cryptography.
So then I started just going into it
more. I first started going more into
maths rather than you know dev. Uh
that's like sort of I guess
unconventional if you can call it but I
just really like the math. So I started
reading a lot about it and I started
going more into cryptography than
cryptodev. So it ended it started like
that. I started cryptography. I learned
all these fundamentals of cryptography.
I read like a few books and everything.
I got into this field called MPC and
like I reached out for an like a
research internship at IAC and during
the time I started like you know
learning all about this MPC crypto
Solana Ethereum what like everything
that's there out there in crypto. So
while I was actually registering for my
internship at IA I was actually in my
room. Okay. So I was in my room and I
was filling out the form and like my
co-founder like now co-founder that time
roommate he was just like what are you
filling out you know and I was like you
know I'm filling this out this research
internship for cryptography and at the
time he had just spoken to my other
co-founder and they had spoken about you
know this idea of building privacy on
chain and they were like they had spoken
about MPC he had never spoken to me
about it and then when he saw me filling
out the form he's like dude you know we
were talking about this idea that time
and I think this might be the same thing
do you want to sort of like talk about
it and like look at how things go and
then I got in touch with crew I got in
touch with prer we started discussing
and at the time I had zero Solana
experience so I actually started Solana
after they told me about the idea so
they told me that okay we want to build
this out on Solana and then I went back
to my room and I was like okay time to
learn Solana and then that's how I sort
of sort of started learning Solana so I
did anchor first I did like I did a lot
of the Solana docs and that's pretty
much how I started into crypto a small
bit of like rust experience I'd gotten
because I was trying to apply for summer
of bitcoin as well. So there was this
bitcoin mining pool that I was
contributing to called braid poolool. So
I was like an early contributor there
but then I sort of stopped contributing
to focus on this. So that's sort of like
how I got into crypto and solana dev
itself.
>> Super interesting. Um and you mentioned
in this journey um you know I'm sure you
worked on more projects before this. I
don't know. Um but do you want to talk
about them before you started to work on
IC and Umbra?
>> Yes. So before like Umbra like
throughout my first year and like first
year first and like one 1.5 years I was
like a regular web 22v. So during my
first year I had qualified for GSO. So I
really loved systems programming from
like day one. Since like school times I
like used to do Java. So that time like
you know after coming to college I was
like okay I really really want to do
systems. So I learned C++ and I started
contributing to this organization. It
was called Haiku. It was basically a C++
operating system more like a project
that was just building for really really
like not powerful computers like really
really low specifications. So I learned
a lot of file systems dev and C++. So I
was very much in systems on the side. I
also did freelance for web development.
So I was also a web to developer for
nextjs and you know the normal mst stack
nextjs thing. I actually did watch a lot
of your videos. So I used to like watch
them and used to like go learn new stuff
and sort of do it. But I was like a web
to developer. I've built a few projects
two two three in C++ one or two in
cryptography and then sort of from there
then I jumped to you know Ethereum dev
and in the meantime some hackathons here
and there as well one in one in my
university one like you know in the
nearby universities and then my third
hackathon was Ethereum India
>> very interesting so you guys met for the
first time like from East India to you
know your telling you about all the NPC
stuff that you know crew is working on.
So was this just around the previous
coliseum hackathon?
>> Like what were could you talk about like
what was your thought process when you
were you know competing for the
hackathon
>> like this I think when crew and like
crew and me and prren had the call. It
was I think like just before the
coliseum hackathon I think one one month
around then. So that time when we had
started out we we did not aim to build
this out just as a hackathon product. It
was never meant to be that at the start
itself we like we knew that this is a
problem and it's going to be solved
somehow or the other. So from day one
itself when we started building out we
had the thing that okay we want to build
this as a product we want to build this
as a company but we will also apply for
like the coliseum hackathon to gain
traction and to you know gain gain
support basically and at the time I did
not know Solana Dev as well. So I
started Solana dev just like just after
crew had mentioned like this. So even my
experience in Solana was like really
really low. So I just started anchor at
the time. So when we submitted to
Coliseum as well I'm pretty sure my code
was a bit shaky as well. Now it's gotten
a lot better since it's like six 7
months. But yeah at the time it was like
slow defe and then we sort of just built
out like around a month of this. We
focus a lot on our front end as well. So
we wanted to make it super seamless and
that's sort of like an idea we've gone
with now as well. So we've always
focused on you know backend code smart
program code should be really well
written but like our front-end
experience should be just as good like
people should not know that they're
interacting with like an encrypted
application but they should be using
one. So that was sort of like when we
started out like and how we approached
coliseum as like a hackathon itself.
>> Nice. I think K it's also worth talking
about you know what Umbra is and what
Umbra does
>> right. Uh so in short basically Umbra
what we're building at Umbra is the
incognito mode for your Solana. So
essentially right now on the blockchain
everything is like a it's basically a
public ledger right you can sort of see
everything that goes on on the
blockchain and that's sort of why it it
it is that way since you need to verify
like you know transitions you need to
verify the state of the blockchain. So
everything on on the blockchain is
public so if I transfer let's say to you
10 soul or you know one soul or whatever
everyone can sort of see that this
address sent to this address and this
much amount. Now obviously addresses are
pseudo like you know they're semi
anonymous but in a lot of cases you do
get docks right like people do associate
people's wallets because let's say we
three have gone on like a lunch or
something okay and one of us has paid
and like the other two pay back or
something like that and now I have your
addresses so it's so easy now now I have
your addresses I can like write a simple
script that gives me whatever like you
know whatever goes on behind the scenes
or whatever you're doing on the Solana
blockchain and that's like a huge
problem so what we're building at Umbra
is like your incognito mode where it
hides all of your transaction. It hides
all of your addresses. So essentially
when you deposit into like Umbra, your
Solana address is unlin from another
address. So you deposit into an Umbra
address but no one can see what Solana
address deposited into it. Behind Umbra
when you transfer to another Umbra
address, it's fully confidential. So no
one can see the amount that was sent. So
let's just say I sent 10 to you. No one
would be able to see that it was 10 cuz
it would be fully hidden. But it would
still be like, you know, done in in this
way where we use MPC. Now the reason why
we went with NPC is because it's
obviously a lot more decentralized. The
whole point is to remain decentralized
and secure, right? So essentially what
goes on is like a set of computers each
get random bits of data and they sort of
add and subtract balances without
knowing what they're doing. So it's like
I'm computing something but I don't know
what I'm computing but I'm giving you
back a result and it's just adding and
subtracting balances. So essentially
that's what Umbra does. It hides your
onchain D5 activity. As of now we have
done transfers. We're working on swaps
and that should be out pretty soon.
We're on the devet right now and we will
be launching to the mainet soon and we
are built on top of another like infra
company called Arum which provides us
with MPC technology. On our side we
build zero knowledge proofs along with
this MPC technology to give you like the
best of both worlds. So it's like fast
transactions without like the you know
cumbersome computations that go into ZK
proofs. So it's like the best of two
worlds.
>> Got it. So let's unpack. You said
something very interesting, right? Is
the incognito mode for your Solana
transactions. So what does it mean? Is
it like does it is it a new wallet or is
it something a new mode that you can
enable in any wallet?
>> Right. So it's like uh on Amra you get
like a new address. So the thing is like
regular mixers what they used to do is
you deposit into a mixer you withdraw
into another you know Solana address or
like another wallet but all of these are
public balances. With Umbra what happens
is when you deposit into an Umbra
address you first deposit into the pool
and that works like a regular mixer. But
the interesting part is what happens
when you claim out of this pool. When
you claim out of this pool essentially
no one can see what you claimed as well.
So it's like no one can see what amount
was claimed and no one can see which
address it went into. So which address
it came from. So let's just say my
Solana address is there. I have like
let's say so much in Soul or so much in
USDC and I deposit this into a mixer
pool. When I claim out of this mixer
pool, no one will be able to know how
much I claimed out of it or which Solana
address it came out of as well. So it
breaks your link between your Solana
address and a confidential balance. Now
when you transfer between two
confidential balances, it's just like
you know a hidden amount that transfers
between two of these. We also have the
feature of sending out of the pool. So
you can send from an Umbra address to a
Solana address and from a Solana address
to an Umbra address. So we are working
on integrations right now and we do
envision this like how you mentioned
like a toggle mode that says send
privately and it just sort of sends. So
that's essentially what we're we're
going for.
>> Got it. So wallet should technically be
able to integrate with Umbra. So you
know whenever they want to transact
privately they can just do do so via
>> I have a question. So how much of this
is like onchain? How much of this is
offshore? When I deposit to an umbra
address, what does it mean?
>> Okay, so when you deposit to an umbra
address, what first happens is like an
instruction goes out that deposits into
a pool and then it creates this thing
called a commitment. We host all of this
onchain. So this Merkel tree, we build a
Merkel tree of these commitments and
this is stored onchain. Your claim
procedure is also stored on chain though
a computation is sent out to an MPC
cluster. So first what happens is a zero
knowledge proof is verified and then a
computation is sent to an MPC cluster.
This MPC cluster the nodes itself are
running offchain but everything
regarding scheduling execution all of
that stuff is maintained onchain and
this is done by RM. So they they host
all they have their own program which
manages all the scheduling execution
layers and everything. So apart from the
nodes that are actually calculating your
amounts everything else is onchain. So
your Merkel trees your nullifiers
everything are stored on chain. So the
most of it is onchain. Just the nodes
themselves since they're not validators.
They are MPC nodes themselves. Those are
those are running offchain but
everything about their execution is
onchain.
>> Makes sense. How big is your team now?
Are you just starting to hire or you
know have you been uh which is the
founders right now?
>> So right now team size is six. So we
have uh two like three of us are
developers and three of us are
non-technical. So uh crew is like our
lead designer. He comes up with all our
UIUX same along with Pran. So both of
them work on like UIUX operations all of
that stuff. We have a we have one team
member who's working from Spain. He
manages all of our marketing, social
media, discord, all of that stuff. And
there are three developers. As of now
I'm like the sole backend developer and
I manage all the cryptography, smart
programs, SDKs, all of that stuff. While
we also have two front-end developers.
One of these developers also aids like a
fullstack developer basically. So all
three of us know fullstack development.
Solana as well as web two. But majority
of the backend work is done by me and a
dev manages mobile devs like separately
and one manages like our web application
and all of our like packages basically.
So it's a team size of six right now.
And like I had mentioned to you, we we
do plan on hiring. we are looking for
like one or maybe you know one or two
devs uh mostly relating to Solana
programming circom programming so like
circum is this language for zk proofs
like I'm I'm sure a lot of people know
about this one so a lot of our zk like
our zk circuits are written in circom so
basically like we're looking for like a
circom plus rust dev and that's sort of
what we're going for but it's a pretty
small team we all are based like five of
us are based off of based in India and
one of us is like in Spain and it's
pretty like why be like a YB team is all
I can say.
>> Got it. Did you have like do you do
scrum planning sprints? Do you have I
don't know cycles of engineering when
you're interviewing or or is it like
pretty ad hoc right now?
>> Uh so there it's like right now during
this ICO sprint and like getting to
mainet it's more or less ad hoc at the
moment. We did have this cycle of
sprints during right after coliseum. So
we had one like monthly cycles of like
this month we're going to accomplish
this no matter how and like that. But
right now since like we're going forward
with audits and things like that things
are pretty ad hoc at the moment though
we will be shifting back to sort of like
a release cycle sort of situation pretty
soon.
>> Awesome.
So how do how do you how do you envision
the you know Umbra
in the future right? So is the goal to
grow a standalone as the app itself like
the Umbra the mobile app or you want or
you're thinking about you know an API or
a platform play where other wallets
could integrate directly with you.
>> Like at the moment we're actually taking
both the roots. So like we have an SDK
that we're building inhouse. So this SDK
is like super easily integraable into
other applications. So what they can do
is interact with our smart program
without understanding any of the
technicalities that go into sending you
know transactions, building these,
managing all the ZKS on client side. We
basically are building out this SDK so
that other teams can sort of use umbra
inside of their applications. So let's
just say like a quick example be if
you're building out a store, right? So
if you're building out a store on chain
and you sort of need like a payments
thing where you're paying using Solana
addresses. So what you could do is you
could integrate our SDK and make your
payments private. So they could have
like umbra addresses that are paying and
it's all confidential payments. Apart
from that our mobile app will be always
in depth. So we're planning on releasing
new features and like new UI to make
this like super seamless. So like I'm
pretty sure like if you have seen like
the very early UI of Umbra and like how
it's now it's very very different. That
time we just had like boxes and stuff
but now it's gotten sort of like a much
smoother experience and we're hoping to
increase this as time goes on. So our
mobile will our mobile application will
also be our focus but we will also be
having our own SDK which other teams can
integrate into.
>> Awesome. Is it is there somewhere people
can try the Umbra app today or is
>> yes is it coming soon?
>> We have like an open beta going on right
now. So you can sort of download our
application and you can try out with
DevNet soul. We also have a faucet. We
have like our own you know fake mints on
the DevNet sort of to mimic all of these
other tokens so that you can sort of
mimic how a USDC transfer would look. We
also do have a web application. So if
you go to our landing page right now
which is umbra privacy.com our landing
page is the transfer page. So you can
sort of deposit and transfer. Obviously
all of this is on devet right now since
RKM is also on the devet but we will be
moving to mainet soon and that time the
application will be out for everyone to
use as well.
>> Since it's also wallet right how do you
do you know
plan to work with like wallet adapter so
that you know you could connect it to
any DAP or
that is number one. Number two is since
it's also you know you either you're
operating on top of the confidential SPL
tokens from RPM or they're or whatever
NPC primitives that they provide. I
wonder how it would work with any any
third party tab you would connect to
because today for example when you
connect phantom or backpack to a third
party app it can the the expectation for
a user experience is it is a is a
certain thing right versus when you're
connecting it via incognito mode then
the expect then the expectation is
different but but then in order to
ensure that both work similarly the
internal plumpings are very different.
So have you guys thought about or is or
is that like a problem way down the
future and you don't worry about it now?
Like as of right now uh there's a small
distinction right now we are not yet a
full wallet we like as of now we are not
a wallet you cannot generate a key pair
using the Umbra app like other wallets
you could generate like a key pair and
everything right for a Solana wallet you
cannot generate one using umbra right
now you connect another wallet so right
now we are a
>> so as of now we haven't like gone and
thought too much about how we're going
to change into a wallet if we go down
that route but as of now we are like a
payments app like sort of like Venmo or
like Google Pay. Basically, you would
not uh generate a keypad using us. You
would connect an existing wallet
already. So, you would have your Phantom
Soulflare and then you would connect to
Umbra using that.
>> Got it. I have one last question.
>> Yeah.
>> Did you guys expect to raise what what
was exactly going through the team's
mind when you, you know, saw that you
guys were trying to raise 750K? From 750
it went to 1 and then it went to three
and then it went to 10. I remember,
you know, chatting with crew on the day
of your the day of the ICO, it went all
the way to 10 and then from 10 it went
to 20 and all the way to 150 by the time
you guys stopped. Uh so what what was
going through your mind? What was it
like?
>> Honestly, like I'll be I'll be very
honest over this one. We were at Apex,
right? And we were like we were
downstairs in the lobby and like our
rays had just started and when we logged
on to like the website to see what's
happening the website had crashed and we
were like okay something's like up and
then we sort of like opened it like
after 10 minutes okay like we were just
trying to reload for like 10 minutes
thinking oh what's happened but
then after 10 minutes when we loaded it
the green bar just went like in like
super fast like and and by and in like
10 minutes it was hitting 2 mil and we
were like what is even happening? Right.
None of us had really expected it cuz
like we me crew and all like we had like
this these sort of like fun bets saying
you know in 4 days we'll raise this much
and we were like you know we had bets
key after 2 and a half days maybe we'll
raise we'll reach 500k or maybe we'll
reach 600k and then we saw it all go in
like 2 3 minutes and we were like blown
up and then even like when we came back
to c like when we were in like Mumbai
during the time and we came back to
campus since we were like we flew back
to our university the next day and like
every day we're sort reloading it and
it's like going up by numbers. But no,
we definitely did not expect that. The
like our plan for our ICO was set pretty
early on that if we did raise it, we
were going to cap it at this much no
matter what. Which is why we actually
did cap it at the same amount. That
decision had not changed throughout. But
seeing the numbers climb was quite quite
fun. M I can't that it was pretty it was
pretty like
>> and also it's probably this this is
probably the only possible on crypto and
on you know the internet capital market
rails right imagine you know building
the same product going to y cominator or
going to one of those accelerators and
going through the ringer where you
it's going to be a you know while before
you see anything like that so
it's definitely [laughter]
a experience and also
>> shows what really is possible if you're
working on the right set of problem
statements with right intentions.
>> Exactly. So that that's pretty cool like
the community support like has been
quite like it's it's been pretty good
for the team like all of our like
motivations productivity is you know
there's always that small factor of
linkage that you know people like what
you're building so it sort of gives you
that push key okay let me push that one
extra feature before going to sleep. So
it's always it's always really nice to
see like all the support that we reached
like we got on Salana and I like I I
hope we keep getting this as we go on to
the future.
>> Awesome.
>> Amazing. On that note, Cal, thank you so
much for joining and congratulations
again.
>> All the best for the product, the best
for the hiring.
>> Thank you so much once again for joining
us, Cal. Congratulations and all the
best. It's like the
you know not there is lot more to
>> Yes.
>> see from here.
>> Yeah.
>> Thank you. Thank you.
>> And thank you for raising the bar.
>> Thank you. Awesome. Such
>> kind words. Thank you for having me. It
was very very nice.